README.md, before:

# glvd-triage-cli

A command-line utility to enrich [GLVD](https://github.com/gardenlinux/glvd) with CVE context information ("triage data").

The CVE context data is maintained in [glvd-triage-data](https://github.com/gardenlinux/glvd-triage-data) as YAML files.

## Use via GitHub Actions Workflow

Trigger the workflow here https://github.com/gardenlinux/glvd-triage-data/actions/workflows/triage.yaml

## Local Usage

### Installation

Download the [glvd-triage.sh script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gardenlinux/glvd-triage-cli/refs/heads/main/aux/glvd-triage.sh) and make it executable:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/bin
wget --output-document ~/bin/glvd-triage https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gardenlinux/glvd-triage-cli/refs/heads/main/aux/glvd-triage.sh
chmod +x ~/bin/glvd-triage
```

Ensure `~/bin` is in your `PATH` to run `glvd-triage` from anywhere.

### Usage

Run the script to add or update CVE context information in GLVD. Refer to the script's help output for available commands and options:

```bash
glvd-triage --help
```

## Testing

This repository includes tests using a [Compose file](https://compose-spec.io) for quick iteration and validation.

To run the tests:

1. Ensure you have [Podman Compose](https://github.com/containers/podman-compose) or Docker Compose installed.
2. Configure Podman Compose to use the `docker-compose` binary if needed.
3. Create a `.gitignored` file named `github-pat.txt` in the repository root and add your GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT) to it.  
    - The PAT should be *fine-grained* with **read access** to the `gardenlinux` organization and the `gardenlinux/glvd-triage-data` repository.

Then, run the tests as described in the Compose file.

Commit message:

Enhance README with repository structure and usage details

README.md, after:

# glvd-triage-cli

A command-line utility to enrich [GLVD](https://github.com/gardenlinux/glvd) with CVE context information ("triage data").

The CVE context data is maintained in [glvd-triage-data](https://github.com/gardenlinux/glvd-triage-data) as YAML files.

## Repository Structure

- **aux/**  
    Contains helper scripts, such as `glvd-triage.sh`, to interact with the triage container image and simplify local usage.

- **src/**  
    Contains the main script responsible for parsing triage YAML files and converting them to SQL. This directory also includes the `Containerfile` for building the triage container image.

- **tests/**  
    Includes both unit and integration tests. Testing is supported by a Docker Compose file and shell scripts located in the project root for easy automation and validation.

## Use via GitHub Actions Workflow

Trigger [the workflow here](https://github.com/gardenlinux/glvd-triage-data/actions/workflows/triage.yaml)

## Local Usage

### Installation

Download the [glvd-triage.sh script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gardenlinux/glvd-triage-cli/refs/heads/main/aux/glvd-triage.sh) and make it executable:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/bin
wget --output-document ~/bin/glvd-triage https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gardenlinux/glvd-triage-cli/refs/heads/main/aux/glvd-triage.sh
chmod +x ~/bin/glvd-triage
```

Ensure `~/bin` is in your `PATH` to run `glvd-triage` from anywhere.

### Usage

#### Requirements
- Access to the 'glvd' gardener cluster via kubectl
    - Set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable accordingly
- GitHub personal access token with read access to https://github.com/gardenlinux/glvd-triage-data

#### CLI Usage

```bash
glvd-triage [-t <image-tag>] path/to/triage/files my-github-pat
```

## Testing

This repository includes tests using a [Compose file](https://compose-spec.io) for quick iteration and validation.

To run the tests:

1. Ensure you have [Podman Compose](https://github.com/containers/podman-compose) or Docker Compose installed.
2. Configure Podman Compose to use the `docker-compose` binary if needed.
3. Create a `.gitignored` file named `github-pat.txt` in the repository root and add your GitHub Personal Access Token (PAT) to it.  
        - The PAT should be *fine-grained* with **read access** to the `gardenlinux` organization and the `gardenlinux/glvd-triage-data` repository.

Then, run the tests as described in the Compose file.
